docs/Training/FisheriesGame.md, before:

# The Fisheries Game

*Under construction*


Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.


| Sequence | Week | Topic                         | Resources | Readings |
|----------|------|-------------------------------|-----------|----------|
| 1        | 1    | Linux and Command Line        | [Terminal Basics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2015/03/17/terminal-basics-for-the-truly-newbies/)  <br>  [Code Academy Tutorial](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-the-command-line) <br>  [Cheat Sheet](https://www.git-tower.com/blog/command-line-cheat-sheet/) <br> [Download Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/)   |          |
| 2        | 2    | Intro to MOEAs                | [MOEA Basics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2012/01/23/moeas-basic-concepts-and-reading/)  <br> [Performance Metrics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2013/06/25/moea-performance-metrics/)      |          |
| 3        | 2    | MOEAFramework                 |           |          |
| 4        | 3    | Borg 101                      |           |          |
| 5        | 4    | Random Seed analysis          |           |          |
| 6        | 4    | Up and running on HPC         |           |          |
| 7        | 5    | Diagnostics and visualiztion  |           |          |

Commit message:

Adding fishgame & pywrdrb content
Also changed the Software/BorgMOEA pages

docs/Training/FisheriesGame.md, after:

# The Fisheries Game

## Overview

This training is designed to replicate the study presented in [Antonia Hadjimichael's 2020 paper, *Navigating Deeply Uncertain Tradeoffs in Harvested Predator-Prey Systems.](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/complexity/2020/4170453/)

This training consists of three parts, detailed in the Activities below and presented on the WaterProgramming blog. All of the code used in the tutorial is hosted in a GitHub repository: [harvested_predator_prey_system_tutorial_series.](https://github.com/TrevorJA/harvested_predator_prey_system_tutorial_series)


### Activities

| Activity | Est. Time   |  Topic      | Resources | Readings | Tasks                                   |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------- | --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------- |
| 1        | 1 days | Intro reading | Reading    | \[1]         | - None |
| 2        | 1 days | Lotka-Volterra ODEs | Blog    | [Training Part 0](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2022/07/11/__trashed-3/) | - Explore equations |
| 3        | 3 days      | Harvest optimization| Blog    | [Training Part 1](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2022/08/08/fisheries-training-part-1-harvest-optimization-and-moea-diagnostics/)         | - Run optimization |
| 4        | 2 days      | Tradeoff Visualization | Blog    | [Training Part 2](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2022/09/14/fisheries-training-part-2-tradeoff-visualization-and-introduction-to-j3/) | - View tradeoffs |


## Reading list
\[1] [Hadjimichael, A., Reed, P. M., & Quinn, J. D. (2020). Navigating deeply uncertain tradeoffs in harvested predator-prey systems. Complexity, 2020, 1-18.](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/complexity/2020/4170453/)

## Necessary software
1. [MOEA Framework](http://moeaframework.org/)
2. [Borg MOEA](../Software/BorgMOEA.md)
3. [J3](../Software/J3.md)
