docs/Training/Linux_MOEAs_HPC.md, before:

# Getting starting with MOEAs

## Introduction

*Under construction*

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.




| Sequence | Week | Topic                         | Resources | Readings |
|----------|------|-------------------------------|-----------|----------|
| 1        | 1    | Linux and Command Line        | [Terminal Basics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2015/03/17/terminal-basics-for-the-truly-newbies/)  <br>  [Code Academy Tutorial](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-the-command-line) <br>  [Cheat Sheet](https://www.git-tower.com/blog/command-line-cheat-sheet/) <br> [Download Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/)   |          |
| 2        | 2    | Intro to MOEAs                | [MOEA Basics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2012/01/23/moeas-basic-concepts-and-reading/)  <br> [Performance Metrics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2013/06/25/moea-performance-metrics/)      |          |
| 3        | 2    | MOEAFramework                 |           |          |
| 4        | 3    | Borg 101                      |           |          |
| 5        | 4    | Random Seed analysis          |           |          |
| 6        | 4    | Up and running on HPC         |           |          |
| 7        | 5    | Diagnostics and visualiztion  |           |          |

Commit message:

changes to template and MOEA training

docs/Training/Linux_MOEAs_HPC.md, after:

# Getting starting with MOEAs

## Introduction

*Under construction*

Welcome to your first training!



| Sequence | Week | Topic                         | Resources | Readings | 
|----------|------|-------------------------------|-----------|----------|
| 1        | 1    | Linux and Command Line        | [Terminal Basics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2015/03/17/terminal-basics-for-the-truly-newbies/)  <br>  [Code Academy Tutorial](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-the-command-line) <br>  [Cheat Sheet](https://www.git-tower.com/blog/command-line-cheat-sheet/) |           | 
| 2        | 2    | Intro to MOEAs                | [MOEA Basics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2012/01/23/moeas-basic-concepts-and-reading/)  [The ABCs of MOEAs](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2021/06/21/the-abcs-of-moeas/) <br> [Performance Metrics](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2013/06/25/moea-performance-metrics/)      | \[1] <br> \[2] <br> \[3] |
| 3        | 2    | MOEAFramework                 | [1-Connecting an External Problem](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2019/04/15/moeaframework-training-part-1-connecting-an-external-problem/) <br> [2-Optimization of an External Problem](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2019/05/29/moeaframework-training-part-2-optimization-of-an-external-problem/) <br> [3- Calculating Metrics] (https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2019/07/01/moeaframework-training-part-3-calculating-metrics/) <br> [4- Processing Metrics and Creating Visualizations](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2019/08/20/moeaframework-training-part-4-processing-metrics-and-creating-visualizations/)| \[4] <br> \[5]|
| 4        | 3    | Borg 101                      | [1-Downloading and Compiling Borg](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2015/06/25/basic-borg-moea-use-for-the-truly-newbies-part-12/) <br>  [2-Connecting Borg with Test Problems](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2015/06/25/basic-borg-moea-use-for-the-truly-newbies-part-22/) | \[6] |
| 5        | 4    | Random Seed analysis          |           |          |
| 6        | 4    | High Performance Computing (HPC) |           |          |
| 7        | 5    | Diagnostics and visualiztion  |           |          |

## Reading list
\[1] Bankes, S. (1993) ‘Exploratory Modeling for Policy Analysis’, Operations Research, 41(3), pp. 435–449. [doi:10.1287/opre.41.3.435.](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/opre.41.3.435) <br>
\[2] Coello Coello, C., Lamont, G.B. and Van Veldhuizen, D.A. (2007) ‘Evolutionary Algorithms for Solving Multi-Objective Problems (Chapter 1)’, Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Series \[Preprint]. [doi:10.1007/978-0-387-36797-2](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-0-387-36797-2). <br>
\[3] Coello Coello, C., Lamont, G.B. and Van Veldhuizen, D.A. (2007) ‘ Evolutionary Algorithms for Solving Multi-Objective Problems ’, Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Series \[Preprint]. [doi:10.1007/978-0-387-36797-2](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-540-72964-8). <br>
\[4] Hadka, D. (2016) Beginner’s Guide to the MOEA Framework (Chapters 1-3). Available at: [https://www.lulu.com](https://www.lulu.com/shop/david-hadka/beginners-guide-to-the-moea-framework/ebook/product-22522401.html?page=1&pageSize=4). <br>
\[5] Reed, P.M. et al. (2013) ‘Evolutionary multiobjective optimization in water resources: The past, present, and future’, Advances in Water Resources, 51, pp. 438–456. [doi:10.1016/j.advwatres.2012.01.005](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0309170812000073). <br>
\[6] Hadka, D., & Reed, P. (2013). Borg: An auto-adaptive many-objective evolutionary computing framework. Evolutionary computation, 21(2), 231-259, [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2012.01.005](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0309170812000073)


## Recommended software 
1. Download [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/) for Mac
2. Download [MobaXTerm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download.html)  for Windows]
3. Download Java for running MOEAFramework
4. Download MOEAFramework
