docs/Training/StateModTraining.md, before:

# Getting starting with StateMod

## Introduction

 StateMod was developed to support comprehensive assessments of water demand, allocation, and use, as well as reservoir operations. It represents all of the major sub-basins within the state of Colorado (i.e., Parsons & Bennett, 2006; White, Yampa, Upper Colorado, Gunnison,Dolores, San Juan, and San Miguel CWCB, 2012). StateMod replicates each basin's unique application and enforcement of the prior appropriation doctrine and accounts for all of the consumptive use within the basins. To do so, it relies on the detailed historic demand and operation records contained in HydroBase thatinclude individual water right information for all consumptive use, data on water structures (wells, ditches,reservoirs, and tunnels), and streamflow data. Further, StateMod uses irrigation consumptive use data out-put from StateCU, which calculates water consumption based on soil moisture, crop type, irrigated acreage,and conveyance and application efficiencies for each individual irrigation unit in the region. These detailed,fine-scale inputs allow StateMod to resolve the effect of all users and water rights on water availability, which can in turn be used to simulate hypothetical scenarios to assess the impacts of changes in hydrology, waterrights, or infrastructure on any and all represented water rights (Hadjimichael et al., 2020). 

 Various students in Reed Group have used StateMod for exploratory analyses and have put together various trainings to help step through the following processes: 


| Topic                    | Resource                            |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| Compiling StateMod        |[Training 1](https://cornell.app.box.com/file/828171348437?s=xlwk6smzrikykmwyt2d7vxb7042puit0)  <br>  [Updated/Alternative Training](https://cornell.box.com/s/f2ykd7hnlod3r2y8s91wjwg9tbu2ko5o)|
| Description of Files      |[Training 2](https://cornell.app.box.com/file/841967112739?s=jb1ch27lgqm3lx0521dax8y9hhg93a96)|
| Running StateMod          |[Training 3](https://cornell.app.box.com/file/828171348437?s=xlwk6smzrikykmwyt2d7vxb7042puit0)|
| Extracting User Shortages |[Training 4](https://cornell.app.box.com/folder/140253226518?s=obmxicki2qpbxgio4wh23dyrjxgribaq)|

Commit message:

Changed StateMod training to template

docs/Training/StateModTraining.md, after:

# Getting starting with StateMod

## Overview

 StateMod was developed to support comprehensive assessments of water demand, allocation, and use, as well as reservoir operations. It represents all of the major sub-basins within the state of Colorado (i.e., Parsons & Bennett, 2006; White, Yampa, Upper Colorado, Gunnison,Dolores, San Juan, and San Miguel CWCB, 2012). StateMod replicates each basin's unique application and enforcement of the prior appropriation doctrine and accounts for all of the consumptive use within the basins. To do so, it relies on the detailed historic demand and operation records contained in HydroBase thatinclude individual water right information for all consumptive use, data on water structures (wells, ditches,reservoirs, and tunnels), and streamflow data. Further, StateMod uses irrigation consumptive use data out-put from StateCU, which calculates water consumption based on soil moisture, crop type, irrigated acreage,and conveyance and application efficiencies for each individual irrigation unit in the region. These detailed,fine-scale inputs allow StateMod to resolve the effect of all users and water rights on water availability, which can in turn be used to simulate hypothetical scenarios to assess the impacts of changes in hydrology, waterrights, or infrastructure on any and all represented water rights (Hadjimichael et al., 2020). 

 Various students in Reed Group have used StateMod for exploratory analyses and have put together various trainings to help step through the following processes: 


 ### Activities

| Activity              | Est. Time   |  Topic      | Readings | Tasks |
| ----------------------|-------------| ----------- | ---------| ------|
| Intro to StateMod 	| 1 hrs       |[Compiling and Running StateMod and Extracting User Shortages](https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2018/07/03/fitting-hidden-markov-models-part-i-background-and-methods/) | [1] | StateMod executable compiled and the ability to run the San Juan Datset |
| StateMod Background 	| 1 hrs       |[Description of Files](https://cornell.app.box.com/file/841967112739?s=jb1ch27lgqm3lx0521dax8y9hhg93a96)| [2] | None |


## Reading list
\[1] Hadjimichael, A., Quinn, J., Wilson, E., Reed, P., Basdekas, L., Yates, D., & Garrison, M. (2020). Defining robustness, vulnerabilities, and consequential scenarios for diverse stakeholder interests in institutionally complex river basins. Earth's Future, 8(7), e2020EF001503.

\[2] https://opencdss.state.co.us/statemod/latest/doc-user/
